Hi, I'm Carrie Anne and welcome to Crash Course Computer Science.
(｡･∀･)ﾉﾞ嗨，我是 Carrie Anne \N 欢迎收看计算机科学速成课！

Early in this series we covered computing history
之前介绍了计算机历史 \N 从人类文明的曙光开始 (第1集）

From roughly the dawn of civilization,
之前介绍了计算机历史 \N 从人类文明的曙光开始 (第1集）

up to the birth of electronic general purpose computers in the mid 1940s.
一直到 1940 年代中期  电子计算机诞生

A lot of the material we've discussed over the past 23 episodes
过去 23 集里讲的很多东西

like programming languages and compilers
比如编程语言和编译器，算法和集成电路

Algorithms and integrated circuits
比如编程语言和编译器，算法和集成电路

Floppy disks and operating systems, telly types and screens
软盘和操作系统，电报机和屏幕

all emerged over roughly a 30-year period,
全都是1940~1970年代，大概这30年间里出现的

From the mid 1940s up to the mid 1970s
全都是1940~1970年代，大概这30年间里出现的

This is the era of computing before companies like Apple and Microsoft existed
那时苹果和微软还不存在，也没有推特，谷歌或者 Uber.

and long before anyone Tweeted, Googled or Uber-d.
那时苹果和微软还不存在，也没有推特，谷歌或者 Uber.

It was a formative period setting the stage for personal computers,
还没到个人电脑时代

worldwide web, self-driving cars, virtual reality, and many other topics
而万维网，无人驾驶汽车，虚拟现实等主题，\N 这个系列的后半部分会讲

we'll get to in the second half of this series.
而万维网，无人驾驶汽车，虚拟现实等主题，\N 这个系列的后半部分会讲

Today we're going to step back from circuits and algorithms
今天, 我们不管电路和算法 \N 来聊聊这个影响力巨大的时代

and review this influential period.
今天, 我们不管电路和算法 \N 来聊聊这个影响力巨大的时代

We'll pay special attention to the historical backdrop of the cold war,
我们会把重点放在 \N 冷战，太空竞赛，全球化，消费主义的兴起.

The space race and the rise of globalization and consumerism.
我们会把重点放在 \N 冷战，太空竞赛，全球化，消费主义的兴起.

Pretty much immediately after World War II concluded in 1945,
1945年二战结束后不久

there was tension between the world's two new superpowers
两个超级大国的关系越发紧张，美国和苏联开始了冷战

the United States and the USSR
两个超级大国的关系越发紧张，美国和苏联开始了冷战

The Cold War had begun and with it,
因此政府往科学和工程学 投入大量资金

massive government spending on science and engineering.
因此政府往科学和工程学 投入大量资金

Computing which had already demonstrated its value
计算机在战时已经证明了自身的价值 \N 比如曼哈顿计划 和 破解纳粹通讯加密

in wartime efforts like the Manhattan Project
计算机在战时已经证明了自身的价值 \N 比如曼哈顿计划 和 破解纳粹通讯加密

and code breaking Nazi communications,
计算机在战时已经证明了自身的价值 \N 比如曼哈顿计划 和 破解纳粹通讯加密

was lavished with government funding.
所以政府大量投入资源 \N 各种雄心勃勃的项目得以进行

They enabled huge ambitious computing projects to be undertaken,
所以政府大量投入资源 \N 各种雄心勃勃的项目得以进行

like ENIAC, EDVAC, Atlas and Whirlwind all mentioned in previous episodes.
比如之前提过的 ENIAC, EDVAC, Atlas, Whirlwind

This spurred rapid advances that simply weren't possible in the commercial sector alone,
这种高速发展，如果仅靠商业运作是根本无法做到的

where projects were generally expected to recoup development costs through sales.
要依靠销售收回开发成本.

This began to change in the early 1950s,
1950年代，事情开始发生变化,

especially with Eckert and Buckley's Univac 1,
特别是 Univac 1，它是第一台取得商业成功的电脑

the first commercially successful computer.
特别是 Univac 1，它是第一台取得商业成功的电脑

Unlike ENIAC or Atlas , this wasn't just one single computer. It was a model of computers.
不像 ENIAC 或 Atlas \N Univanc 1 不是一台机器，而是一个型号

in total more than 40 were built.
一共造了40多台

Most of these Univacs went to government offices or large companies.
大部分 Univac 去了政府或大公司

Which was part of the growing military industrial complex in the United States,
成为美国日益增长的军事工业综合体的一部分

with pockets deep enough to afford the cutting edge.
因为政府有钱承担这些尖端科技.

Famously, a Univac 1 built for the U.S atomic energy commission
一个著名的例子是，\N 一台给 美国原子能委员会 生产的 Univac 1

was used by CBS to predict the results of the 1952 U.S. presidential election.
被 CBS 用来预测 1952 年美国总统大选的结果

With just 1% of the vote the computer correctly predicted
仅用1％的选票，Univac 1 正确预测了结果. \N 艾森豪威尔 获得压倒性胜利，而专家预测 史蒂文森 会赢

Eisenhower landslide, while pundits favored Stevenson.
仅用1％的选票，Univac 1 正确预测了结果. \N 艾森豪威尔 获得压倒性胜利，而专家预测 史蒂文森 会赢

It was a media event that helped propel computing to the forefront of the public's imagination
这次事件把计算机推到了公众面前

Computing was unlike machines of the past,
计算机和以前的机器不一样

which generally augmented human physical abilities.
以前的机器 增强人类的物理能力

Trucks allowed us to carry more, automatic looms whoa faster,
比如卡车能带更多东西，自动织布机更快

Machine tools were more precise and so on
机床更精确 等等. 这些东西代表了工业革命.

for a bunch of contraptions that typify the industrial revolution.
机床更精确 等等. 这些东西代表了工业革命.

But computers on the other hand could augment human intellect.
而计算机增强的是人类智力

This potential wasn't lost on Vannevar Bush,
范内瓦·布什 看到了这种潜力 \N 他在1945年发表了一篇文章

who in 1945 published an article on a
范内瓦·布什 看到了这种潜力 \N 他在1945年发表了一篇文章

hypothetical computing device he envisioned called the Memex.
描述了一种假想计算设备叫 Memex

This was a device in which an individual stores all his books,
可以用这个设备 \N 存自己所有的书, 其他资料 以及和别人沟通

records and communications and which is mechanized,
而且数据是按照格式存储, \N 所以可以快速查询，有很大灵活性.

so it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility
而且数据是按照格式存储, \N 所以可以快速查询，有很大灵活性.

It is an enlarged intimate supplement to his memory.
可以辅助我们的记忆

He also predicted that wholly new forms of encyclopedia will appear,
他还预测会出现 新的百科全书形式

ready-made, with a mesh of associative trails running through them.
信息之间相互链接

Sound familiar?
听起来是不是很熟悉？（维基百科）

Memex directly inspired several subsequent game-changing systems,
Memex 启发了  之后几个重要里程碑

like Ivan Sutherland Sketchpad, which we discussed last episode,
比如上集 伊万·萨瑟兰 的 Sketchpad(画板)

and Dough Engelbart's online system, which we will cover soon.
以及后面很快会讲到 \N Dough Engelbart 的 oN-LINE 系统（第26集）

Vannevar Bush was the head of the U.S. office of Scientific Research and Development,
范内瓦·布什 \N 做过"美国科学研究与开发办公室"的头头

which was responsible for funding and coordinating scientific research during World War 2.
这个部门负责在二战期间 \N 资助和安排科学研究

With the Cold War brewing, Bush lobbied for a creation of a peace time equivalent,
冷战时 范内瓦·布什 到处游说，\N 想建立一个职责类似，但是在和平时期运作的部门

the National Science Foundation, formed in 1950.
因此 国家科学基金会 于1950年成立

To this day the NSF provides federal funding to support scientific research in the United States.
至今，国家科学基金会 \N 依然负责给科学研究 提供政府资金

And it is a major reason the U.S. has continued to be a leader in the technology sector.
美国的科技领先全球，主要原因之一就是这个机构.

It was also in the 1950s that consumers started to buy transistor powered gadgets,
1950年代，消费者开始买晶体管设备

notable among them was the transistor radio,
其中值得注意的是 收音机

which was small, durable and battery-powered.
它又小又耐用，用电池就够了，而且便携

And it was portable,
它又小又耐用，用电池就够了，而且便携

unlike the vacuum tube based radio sets from the 1940s and before.
不像 1940 年代之前的收音机，用的是真空管.

It was a runaway success, the Furby or iPhone of its day.
收音机非常成功，卖的像"菲比精灵"和 iPhone 一样畅销.

The Japanese government looking for industrial opportunities,
日本政府也在寻求工业机会，想振兴战后经济，

to bolster their post-war economy, soon got in on the action.
日本政府也在寻求工业机会，想振兴战后经济，

Licensing the rights to Transistors from Bell Labs in 1952.
他们很快动手从贝尔实验室 取得晶体管的授权

Helping launch the Japanese semiconductor and electronics industry.
帮助振兴日本的半导体和电子行业

In 1955, the first Sony product was released:
1955年，索尼的第一款产品面世

The TR-55 Transistor Radio. Concentrating on quality and price,
TR-55 晶体管收音机. 他们把重心放在质量和价格.

Japanese companies captured half of the U.S. Market for portable radios in just five years.
因此日本公司在短短5年内，就占有了美国便携式收音机市场的一半.

This planted the first seeds of a major industrial rivalry in the decades to come.
这为日本成为美国的强大工业对手，埋下伏笔

In 1953, there were only around 100 computers on the entire planet
1953年，整个地球大概有100台计算机

and at this point, the USSR was only a few years behind the West in computing technology,
苏联这时的计算机科技  只比西方落后几年

completing their first programmable electronic computer in 1950.
苏联在1950年 \N完成了第一个可编程电子计算机

But the Soviets were way ahead in the burgeoning space race.
但苏联在太空竞赛远远领先

Let's go to the thought-bubble.
我们进入思想泡泡

The Soviets launched the world's first satellite into orbit, Sputnik one,
苏联在1957年 \N 把第一个卫星送上轨道，史波尼克1号

in 1957, and a few years later in 1961.
不久，在1961年

Soviet Cosmonaut, Yuri Gagarin became the first human in space.
苏联宇航员 尤里·加加林 第一个进入太空

This didn't sit well with the American public
美国民众对此不满

and prompted President Kennedy, a month after Gagarin's mission,
使得肯尼迪总统 \N 在加加林太空任务一个月后

to encourage the nation to land a man on the moon within the decade. And it was expensive!
提出要登陆月球. 登月很贵的!

NASA's budget grew almost tenfold,
NASA 的预算增长了几乎十倍,

peaking in 1966 at roughly 4.5 percent of the U.S. Federal budget
在 1966 年达到顶峰，占了政府预算的4.5%

Today, It's around half a percent
如今, NASA 的预算只占 0.5%

NASA used this funding to tackle a huge array of enormous challenges
NASA 用这笔钱资助各种科学研究

this culminated in the Apollo program
阿波罗计划花的钱最多，雇了40万人左右

Which is peak employed roughly 400,000 people
阿波罗计划花的钱最多，雇了40万人左右

further supported by over 20,000 universities and companies
而且有2万多家大学和公司参与.

one of these huge challenges was navigating in space
其中一个挑战是 怎样在太空中导航

NASA needed a computer to process complex trajectories
NASA 需要电脑计算复杂的轨道来引导太空船

and issue guidance commands to the spacecraft
NASA 需要电脑计算复杂的轨道来引导太空船

For this, they built the Apollo guidance computer,
因此，他们造了 "阿波罗导航计算机"

There were three significant requirements
有3个重要要求

First, the computer had to be fast, no surprise there.
1. 计算机要快, 这在意料之中.

Second, it had to be small & lightweight
2. 计算机要又小又轻.

there's not a lot of room in a spacecraft
太空船里的空间不多

and every ounce is precious when you're flying a quarter million miles to the moon
而且要飞去月球，能轻一点是一点

And finally it had to be really really ridiculously reliable
3. 要超级可靠

This is super important in a spacecraft
这对太空船非常重要，因为太空中有很多震动，辐射，极端温度变化

Where there's lots of vibration radiation and temperature change
这对太空船非常重要，因为太空中有很多震动，辐射，极端温度变化

And there's no running to Best Buy, if something breaks.
如果东西坏掉了，可没办法去"百思买"买新的

the technology of the era of vacuum tubes and discrete transistors
那时的主流科技 \N 真空管和晶体管 无法胜任这些要求

Just weren't up to the task
那个时代的主流科技，真空管和离散晶体管，无法胜任这些要求.

so NASA turned to a brand-new technology, integrated circuits.
所以 NASA 用全新科技：集成电路

Which we discussed a few episodes ago
我们几集前聊过

The Apollo guidance computer was the first computer to use them, a huge paradigm shift
阿波罗导航计算机 首先使用了集成电路

NASA was also the only place that could afford them
NASA 是唯一负担得起集成电路的组织

Initially each chip cost around $50
最初，一个芯片差不多50美金

And the guidance computer needed thousands of them.
导航计算机需要上千个芯片

But by paying that price, the Americans were able to beat the soviets to the moon
但美国也因此成功登月，打败苏联

Thanks, thought-bubble
谢了 思想泡泡

Although the Apollo Guidance computer is credited
虽然人们经常把集成电路的发展 \N 归功于阿波罗导航计算机

with spurring the development and adoption of integrated circuits
虽然人们经常把集成电路的发展 \N 归功于阿波罗导航计算机

It was a low volume, product there are only 17 Apollo missions after all.
但它们的产量很低，一共只有 17 次阿波罗任务

it was actually military applications
实际上是军事 大大推进了集成电路发展

Especially the minuteman and polaris nuclear missile systems
特别是洲际导弹和核弹，使集成电路大规模生产

That allowed integrated circuits to become a mass-produced item
特别是洲际导弹和核弹，使集成电路大规模生产

This rapid Advancement was further accelerated by the U.S.
美国建造强大计算机时，也进一步推进了集成电路

Building and buying huge powerful computers
美国建造强大计算机时，也进一步推进了集成电路

Often called supercomputers, because they were frequently
一般叫"超级计算机"，\N 因为它们经常比全球最快电脑还快10倍以上

10 times faster than any other computer on the planet, upon their release.
一般叫"超级计算机"，\N 因为它们经常比全球最快电脑还快10倍以上

but these machines built by companies like CDC, Cray and IBM were also
但 CDC，Cray，IBM 制造的计算机非常昂贵

super in cost, and pretty much only governments could afford to buy them.
几乎只有政府负担得起

in the U.S. these machines went to government Agencies like the NSA.
这些计算机用于政府机构，比如美国国家安全局

and government research labs like Lawrence Livermore and Los Alamos National laboratories
以及实验室比如  \N 劳伦斯·利弗莫尔 实验室 \N  洛斯·阿拉莫斯 国家实验室

Initially the U.S. semiconductor industry boomed
最初，美国的半导体行业 \N 靠高利润政府合同起步

buoyed by High profit government contracts
最初，美国的半导体行业 \N 靠高利润政府合同起步

However this meant that most U.S.companies overlooked
因此忽略了消费者市场，因为利润小

the consumer market where profit margins were small
因此忽略了消费者市场，因为利润小

the Japanese Semiconductor industry came to dominate this niche
因此日本半导体行业在1950和1960年代 \N 靠低利润率占领了消费者市场

by having to operate with lean profit margins in the 1950s and 60s
因此日本半导体行业在1950和1960年代 \N 靠低利润率占领了消费者市场

the Japanese had invested heavily in manufacturing capacity
日本人投入大量资金，大量制造以达到规模经济

to achieve economies of scale
日本人投入大量资金，大量制造以达到规模经济

in research to improve quality and Yields and in automation to keep manufacturing costs low.
同时研究技术，提高质量和产量 \N 以及用自动化来降低成本

in the 1970s with the Space Race and cold war subsiding
1970年代，太空竞赛和冷战逐渐消退 \N 高利润的政府合同变少

previously juicy defense contracts began to dry up.
1970年代，太空竞赛和冷战逐渐消退 \N 高利润的政府合同变少

and American semi-conductor and electronics companies found it harder to compete.
美国的半导体和电子设备公司发现更难竞争了

it didn't help the many computing components had been commoditized
虽然很多计算机组件商品化了，但并没有什么帮助

DRAM was DRAM
DRAM 就是 DRAM

So why buy expensive Intel memory when you could buy the same chip for less from Hitachi?
能从日立买便宜的，干嘛要从英特尔买贵的？

Throughout the 1970s U.S. companies began to downsize,
1970年代 美国公司开始缩小，合并，或直接倒闭

consolidate or outright fail.
1970年代 美国公司开始缩小，合并，或直接倒闭

Intel had to lay off a third of its workforce in 1974
1974年 英特尔不得不裁员三分之一

and even the storied Fairchild semiconductor
知名的仙童半导体也在 1979 年濒临倒闭 \N 被其他公司收购了

was acquired in 1979 after near bankruptcy
知名的仙童半导体也在 1979 年濒临倒闭 \N 被其他公司收购了

to survive many of these companies began to outsource their manufacturing in a bid to reduce costs.
为了生存，很多公司把生产外包出去，降低成本

Intel withdrew from its main product category, Memory IC
英特尔不再把精力放在 内存集成电路 \N 而是把精力放在处理器

and decided to refocus on processes.
英特尔不再把精力放在 内存集成电路 \N 而是把精力放在处理器

Which ultimately saved the company.
这个决定最后挽救了公司

This low and U.S.
美国公司的无力 \N 导致 夏普 和 卡西欧 这样的日本公司

electronics industry allowed Japanese companies like Sharp and Casio
美国公司的无力 \N 导致 夏普 和 卡西欧 这样的日本公司

to dominate the breakout computing product of the 1970s.
占领了1970年代的主流产品

Handheld electronic calculators.
手持计算器

by using integrated circuits, these could be made small and cheap.
因为集成电路，计算机又小又便宜

They replaced expensive desktop adding machines you find in offices.
取代了办公室里昂贵的桌面计算器

For most people it was the first time they didn't have to do math on paper, or use a slide rule
对大多数人 \N 这是他们第一次不必用纸笔和计算尺来做计算

They were an instant hit, selling by the millions.
手持计算机因此大卖

This further drove down the cost of integrated circuits
进一步降低了集成电路的成本

and led to the development and widespread use of micro processors.
使得微处理器被广泛使用

like the Intel 4004 we've discussed previously
比如之前讨论过的 Intel 4004

This chip was built by Intel in 1971
Intel 在1971年 \N 应日本计算器公司 Busicom 的要求做了这个芯片

at the request of Japanese calculator company Busicom.
Intel 在1971年 \N 应日本计算器公司 Busicom 的要求做了这个芯片

Soon, Japanese electronics were everywhere.
很快，日本电子产品到处都是

from televisions of VCRs to digital wristwatches and Walkmans
从电视到手表到随身听

the availability of inexpensive microprocessor
而廉价的微处理器，也催生了全新的产品，比如街机游戏

Spawned in entirely new products like video arcades,
而廉价的微处理器，也催生了全新的产品，比如街机游戏

the world got Pong in 1972 and Breakout in 1976.
1972年诞生了Pong，1976年诞生了打砖块

as cost continued to plummet
因为成本不断下降

soon it became possible for regular people to afford computing devices
很快，普通人也买得起计算机了

during this time we see the emergence of the first successful home computers
这段期间，第一批家用电脑开始出现，比如1975年的 Altair 8800

like the 1975 Altair 8800
这段期间，第一批家用电脑开始出现，比如1975年的 Altair 8800

and also the first home gaming consoles
以及第一款家用游戏机，比如1977年的Atari 2600

like the Atari 2600 in 1977,
以及第一款家用游戏机，比如1977年的Atari 2600

Home, now I repeat that, Home.
家用！我再说一遍 家用！

That seems like a small thing today.
如今没什么大不了的.

But this was the dawn of a whole new era in computing.
但那时是计算机的全新时代

in just three decades, computers have evolved from
在短短三十年内，计算机从大到人类可以在 CPU 里走来走去

machines where you could literally walk inside of the CPU.
在短短三十年内，计算机从大到人类可以在 CPU 里走来走去

assuming you had government clearance
当然，你要有政府许可你这样做.

to the point where a child could play with a handheld toy
发展到小到小孩都能拿住的手持玩具，而且微处理器还快得多.

Containing a microprocessor many times faster,
发展到小到小孩都能拿住的手持玩具，而且微处理器还快得多.

Critically, this dramatic evolution would have been but without two powerful forces at play
这种巨大变化是由两种力量推动的：政府和消费者

Governments and Consumers.
这种巨大变化是由两种力量推动的：政府和消费者

Government funding like the United States provided during the cold war
政府资金，比如冷战期间美国投入的钱

enabled early adoption of many nascent computing technologies
推动了计算机的早期发展

This funding helped flow entire Industries relate into computing long enough
并且让计算机行业活得足够久，使得技术成熟到可以商用

for the technology to mature and become commercially feasible.
并且让计算机行业活得足够久，使得技术成熟到可以商用

Then businesses and ultimately consumers, provided the demand to take it mainstream.
然后是公司，最后是消费者，把计算机变成了主流

The cold war may be over, but this relationship continues today
冷战虽然结束了，但这种关系今天仍在继续

Governments are still funding science research.
政府依然在资助科学研究

intelligence agencies are still buying supercomputers.
情报机构依然在超级计算机

humans are still being launched into space.
人类仍然被发射到太空里

And you're still buying TV, Xbox, Playstation, Laptop and Smartphone
而你依然在买电视，Xbox，Playstation，笔记本电脑和手机

and for these reasons,
因此，计算机会继续飞速发展

Computing continues to advance a lightning pace.
因此，计算机会继续飞速发展

I'll see you next week
我们下周见

