Hi, I’m Carrie Anne, and welcome to Crash Course Computer Science.
(｡･∀･)ﾉﾞ嗨，我是 Carrie Anne \N 欢迎收看计算机科学速成课！

Over the past two episodes, we’ve delved into the wires, signals, switches, packets,
前两集我们深入讨论了电线 信号 交换机 数据包 \N 路由器以及协议，它们共同组成了互联网.

routers and protocols that make up the internet.
前两集我们深入讨论了电线 信号 交换机 数据包 \N 路由器以及协议，它们共同组成了互联网.

Today we’re going to move up yet another level of abstraction
今天我们向上再抽象一层，来讨论万维网

and talk about the World Wide Web.
今天我们向上再抽象一层，来讨论万维网

This is not the same thing as the Internet,
万维网(World Wide Web) \N 和互联网(Internet)不是一回事

even though people often use the two terms interchangeably.
尽管人们经常混用这两个词

The World Wide Web runs on top of the internet,
万维网在互联网之上运行

in the same way that Skype, Minecraft or Instagram do.
互联网之上还有 Skype, Minecraft 和 Instagram

The Internet is the underlying plumbing that conveys the data for all these different applications.
互联网是传递数据的管道，各种程序都会用，

And The World Wide Web is the biggest of them all
其中传输最多数据的程序是万维网

– a huge distributed application running on millions of servers worldwide,
分布在全球数百万个服务器上

accessed using a special program called a web browser.
可以用"浏览器"来访问万维网

We’re going to learn about that, and much more, in today’s episode.
这集我们会深入讲解万维网

The fundamental building block of the World Wide Web – or web for short
万维网的最基本单位，是单个页面

– is a single page.
万维网的最基本单位，是单个页面

This is a document, containing content, which can include links to other pages.
页面有内容，也有去往其他页面的链接 \N 这些链接叫"超链接"

These are called hyperlinks.
页面有内容，也有去往其他页面的链接 \N 这些链接叫"超链接"

You all know what these look like: text or images that you can click,
你们都见过：可以点击的文字或图片，把你送往另一个页面

and they jump you to another page.
你们都见过：可以点击的文字或图片，把你送往另一个页面

These hyperlinks form a huge web of interconnected information,
这些超链接形成巨大的互联网络

which is where the whole thing gets its name.
这就是"万维网"名字的由来

This seems like such an obvious idea.
现在说起来觉得很简单，但在超链接做出来之前

But before hyperlinks were implemented,
现在说起来觉得很简单，但在超链接做出来之前

every time you wanted to switch to another piece of information on a computer,
计算机上每次想看另一个信息时

you had to rummage through the file system to find it, or type it into a search box.
你需要在文件系统中找到它 \N 或是把地址输入搜索框

With hyperlinks, you can easily flow from one related topic to another.
有了超链接，你可以在相关主题间轻松切换

The value of hyperlinked information was conceptualized by Vannevar Bush way back in 1945.
超链接的价值早在 1945 年 \N 就被 Vannevar Bush 意识到了

He published an article describing a hypothetical machine called a Memex,
在第 24 集中我们说过，他发过一篇文章 \N 描述一个假想的机器 Memex

which we discussed in Episode 24.
在第 24 集中我们说过，他发过一篇文章 \N 描述一个假想的机器 Memex

Bush described it as "associative indexing... whereby any item may be caused
Bush的形容是"关联式索引.. 选一个物品会引起

at will to select another immediately and automatically."
另一个物品被立即选中"

He elaborated: "The process of tying two things together is the important thing...
他解释道："将两样东西联系在一起的过程十分重要

thereafter, at any time, when one of those items is in view,
在任何时候，当其中一件东西进入视线

the other [item] can be instantly recalled merely by tapping a button."
只需点一下按钮，立马就能回忆起另一件"

In 1945, computers didn’t even have screens, so this idea was way ahead of its time!
1945年的时候计算机连显示屏都没有，\N 所以这个想法非常超前！

Text containing hyperlinks is so powerful,
因为文字超链接是如此强大

it got an equally awesome name: hypertext!
它得到了一个同样厉害的名字："超文本"！

Web pages are the most common type of hypertext document today.
如今超文本最常指向的，是另一个网页

They’re retrieved and rendered by web browsers
然后网页由浏览器渲染，我们待会会讲

which we'll get to in a few minutes.
然后网页由浏览器渲染，我们待会会讲

In order for pages to link to one another, each hypertext page needs a unique address.
为了使网页能相互连接，每个网页需要一个唯一的地址

On the web, this is specified by a Uniform Resource Locator, or URL for short.
这个地址叫 "统一资源定位器"，简称 URL

An example web page URL is thecrashcourse.com/courses.
一个网页URL的例子是 "thecrashcourse.com/courses"

Like we discussed last episode, when you request a site,
就像上集讨论的，当你访问一个网站时

the first thing your computer does is a DNS lookup.
计算机首先会做"DNS查找"

This takes a domain name as input – like "thecrashcourse.com"
"DNS查找"的输入是一个域名 \N 比如 thecrashcourse.com

and replies back with the corresponding computer’s IP address.
DNS 会输出对应的IP地址

Now, armed with the IP address of the computer you want,
现在有了IP地址 \N 你的浏览器会打开一个 TCP 连接到这个 IP 地址

your web browser opens a TCP connection to a computer
现在有了IP地址 \N 你的浏览器会打开一个 TCP 连接到这个 IP 地址

that’s running a special piece of software called a web server.
这个地址运行着"网页服务器"

The standard port number for web servers is port 80.
网页服务器的标准端口是 80 端口

At this point, all your computer has done is connect to
这时，你的计算机连到了 \N thecrashcourse.com 的服务器

the web server at the address thecrashcourse.com
这时，你的计算机连到了 \N thecrashcourse.com 的服务器

The next step is to ask that web server for the "courses" hypertext page.
下一步是向服务器请求"courses"这个页面

To do this, it uses the aptly named Hypertext Transfer Protocol, or HTTP.
这里会用"超文本传输协议"(HTTP)

The very first documented version of this spec, HTTP 0.9, created in 1991,
HTTP的第一个标准，HTTP 0.9，创建于1991年

only had one command – "GET".
只有一个指令，"GET" 指令

Fortunately, that’s pretty much all you need.
幸运的是，对当时来说也够用

Because we’re trying to get the "courses" page,
因为我们想要的是"courses"页面

we send the server the following command– GET /courses.
我们向服务器发送指令:"GET /courses"

This command is sent as raw ASCII text to the web server,
该指令以"ASCII编码"发送到服务器

which then replies back with the web page hypertext we requested.
服务器会返回该地址对应的网页 \N 然后浏览器会渲染到屏幕上

This is interpreted by your computer's web browser and rendered to your screen.
服务器会返回该地址对应的网页 \N 然后浏览器会渲染到屏幕上

If the user follows a link to another page, the computer just issues another GET request.
如果用户点了另一个链接，计算机会重新发一个GET请求

And this goes on and on as you surf around the website.
你浏览网站时，这个步骤会不断重复

In later versions, HTTP added status codes,
在之后的版本，HTTP添加了状态码

which prefixed any hypertext that was sent following a GET request.
状态码放在请求前面

For example, status code 200 means OK – I’ve got the page and here it is!
举例，状态码 200 代表 "网页找到了,给你"

Status codes in the four hundreds are for client errors.
状态码400~499代表客户端出错

Like, if a user asks the web server for a page that doesn’t exist,
比如网页不存在，就是可怕的404错误

that’s the dreaded 404 error!
比如网页不存在，就是可怕的404错误

Web page hypertext is stored and sent as plain old text,
"超文本"的存储和发送都是以普通文本形式

for example, encoded in ASCII or UTF-16, which we talked about in Episodes 4 and 20.
举个例子，编码可能是 ASCII 或 UTF-16  \N 我们在第4集和第20集讨论过

Because plain text files don’t have a way to specify what’s a link and what’s not,
因为如果只有纯文本 \N 无法表明什么是链接，什么不是链接

it was necessary to develop a way to "mark up" a text file with hypertext elements.
所以有必要开发一种标记方法

For this, the Hypertext Markup Language was developed.
因此开发了 超文本标记语言（HTML)

The very first version of HTML version 0.8, created in 1990,
HTML 第一版的版本号是 0.8，创建于 1990 年

provided 18 HTML commands to markup pages.
有18种HTML指令

That’s it!
仅此而已

Let’s build a webpage with these!
我们来做一个网页吧！

First, let’s give our web page a big heading.
首先，给网页一个大标题

To do this, we type in the letters "h1", which indicates the start of a first level
我们输 h1 代表一级标题，然后用<>括起来

heading, and we surround that in angle brackets.
我们输 h1 代表一级标题，然后用<>括起来

This is one example of an HTML tag.
这就是一个HTML标签

Then, we enter whatever heading text we want.
然后输入想要的标题

We don’t want the whole page to be a heading.
我们不想一整页都是标题 \N 所以加 </h1> 作为结束标签

So, we need to "close" the "h1" tag like so, with a little slash in the front.
我们不想一整页都是标题 \N 所以加 </h1> 作为结束标签

Now lets add some content.
现在来加点内容

Visitors may not know what Klingons are, so let’s make that word a hyperlink to the
读者可能不知道"克林贡"是什么，所以我们给这个词

Klingon Language Institute for more information.
加一个超链接到"克林贡语言研究院"

We do this with an "A" tag, inside of which we include an attribute
我们用 <a> 标签来做，它有一个 href 属性

that specifies a hyperlink reference.
说明链接指向哪里，当点击链接时就会进入那个网页

That’s the page to jump to if the link is clicked.
说明链接指向哪里，当点击链接时就会进入那个网页

And finally, we need to close the A tag.
最后用 </a> 关闭标签

Now lets add a second level heading, which uses an "h2" tag.
接下来用 <h2> 标签做二级标题

HTML also provides tags to create lists.
HTML也有做列表的标签

We start this by adding the tag for an ordered list.
我们先写<ol> \N 代表 有序列表（ordered list）

Then we can add as many items as we want,
然后想加几个列表项目  就加几个 \N 用 <li> 包起来就行

surrounded in "<li>" tags, which stands for list item.
然后想加几个列表项目  就加几个 \N 用 <li> 包起来就行

People may not know what a bat'leth is, so let’s make that a hyperlink too.
读者可能不知道Bat'leth是什么，那么也加上超链接

Lastly, for good form, we need to close the ordered list tag.
最后，为了保持良好格式，用</ol>代表列表结束

And we’re done – that’s a very simple web page!
这就完成了 - 一个很简单的网页！

If you save this text into notepad or textedit, and name it something like "test.html",
如果把这些文字存入记事本或文本编辑器，\N 然后文件取名"test.html"

you should be able to open it by dragging it into your computer’s web browser.
就可以拖入浏览器打开

Of course, today’s web pages are a tad more sophisticated.
当然，如今的网页更复杂一些

The newest version of HTML, version 5, has over a hundred different tags –
最新版的 HTML，HTML5，有100多种标签

for things like images, tables, forms and buttons.
图片标签，表格标签，表单标签，按钮标签，等等

And there are other technologies we’re not going to discuss, like Cascading Style Sheets
还有其他相关技术就不说了\N 比如 层叠样式表 (CSS)

or CSS and JavaScript, which can be embedded into HTML pages and do even fancier things.
和 JavaScript，这俩可以加进网页，做一些更厉害的事

That brings us back to web browsers.
让我们回到浏览器

This is the application on your computer that lets you talk with all these web servers.
网页浏览器可以和网页服务器沟通

Browsers not only request pages and media,
浏览器不仅获取网页和媒体，获取后还负责显示.

but also render the content that’s being returned.
浏览器不仅获取网页和媒体，获取后还负责显示.

The first web browser, and web server,
第一个浏览器和服务器

was written by (now Sir) Tim Berners-Lee over the course of two months in 1990.
是 Tim Berners-Lee 在 1990 年写的，一共花了2个月

At the time, he was working at CERN in Switzerland.
那时候他在瑞士的"欧洲核子研究所"工作

To pull this feat off, he simultaneously created several of the fundamental web standards
为了做出来，他同时建立了几个最基本的网络标准

we discussed today: URL, HTML and HTTP.
URL, HTML 和 HTTP.

Not bad for two months work!
两个月能做这些很不错啊！

Although to be fair, he’d been researching hypertext systems for over a decade.
不过公平点说，他研究超文本系统已经有十几年了

After initially circulating his software amongst colleagues at CERN,
和同事在 CERN 内部使用一阵子后

it was released to the public in 1991.
在 1991 年发布了出去

The World Wide Web was born.
万维网就此诞生

Importantly, the web was an open standard,
重要的是，万维网有开放标准

making it possible for anyone to develop new web servers and browsers.
大家都可以开发新服务器和新浏览器

This allowed a team at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to
因此"伊利诺伊大学香槟分校"的一个小组

create the Mosaic web browser in 1993.
在 1993 年做了 Mosaic 浏览器

It was the first browser that allowed graphics to be embedded alongside text;
第一个可以在文字旁边显示图片的浏览器

previous browsers displayed graphics in separate windows.
之前浏览器要单开一个新窗口显示图片

It also introduced new features like bookmarks, and had a friendly GUI interface,
还引进了书签等新功能，界面友好，使它很受欢迎

which made it popular.
还引进了书签等新功能，界面友好，使它很受欢迎

Even though it looks pretty crusty, it’s recognizable as the web we know today!
尽管看上去硬邦邦的，但和如今的浏览器长的差不多

By the end of the 1990s, there were many web browsers in use,
1990年代末有许多浏览器面世

like Netscape Navigator, Internet Explorer, Opera, OmniWeb and Mozilla.
Netscape Navigator, Internet Explorer \N Opera, OmniWeb, Mozilla

Many web servers were also developed,
也有很多服务器面世

like Apache and Microsoft’s Internet Information Services (IIS).
比如 Apache 和 微软互联网信息服务(IIS)

New websites popped up daily, and web mainstays
每天都有新网站冒出来，如今的网络巨头

like Amazon and eBay were founded in the mid-1990s.
比如亚马逊和 eBay，创始于 1990 年代中期

It was a golden era!
那是个黄金时代！

The web was flourishing and people increasingly needed ways to find things.
随着万维网日益繁荣，人们越来越需要搜索

If you knew the web address of where you wanted to go –
如果你知道网站地址 \N 比如 ebay.com，直接输入浏览器就行

like ebay.com – you could just type it into the browser.
如果你知道网站地址 \N 比如 ebay.com，直接输入浏览器就行

But what if you didn’t know where to go?
如果不知道地址呢？

Like, you only knew that you wanted pictures of cute cats.
比如想找可爱猫咪的图片

Right now!
现在就要！

Where do you go?
去哪里找呢？

At first, people maintained web pages
起初人们会维护一个目录，链接到其他网站

which served as directories hyperlinking to other websites.
起初人们会维护一个目录，链接到其他网站

"Most famous among these was "Jerry and David's guide to the World Wide Web",
其中最有名的叫"Jerry和David的万维网指南"

renamed Yahoo in 1994.
1994年改名为Yahoo

As the web grew, these human-edited directories started to get unwieldy,
随着网络越来越大，人工编辑的目录变得不便利

and so search engines were developed.
所以开发了搜索引擎

Let’s go to the thought bubble!
让我们进入思想泡泡!

The earliest web search engine that operated like the ones we use today, was JumpStation,
长的最像现代搜索引擎的最早搜素引擎，叫JumpStation

created by Jonathon Fletcher in 1993 at the University of Stirling.
由Jonathon Fletcher于1993年在斯特林大学创建

This consisted of three pieces of software that worked together.
它有 3 个部分

The first was a web crawler, software that followed all the links it could find on the web;
第一个是爬虫，一个跟着链接到处跑的软件

anytime it followed a link to a page that had new links,
每当看到新链接，就加进自己的列表里

it would add those to its list.
每当看到新链接，就加进自己的列表里

The second component was an ever enlarging index,
第二个部分是不断扩张的索引

recording what text terms appeared on what pages the crawler had visited.
记录访问过的网页上，出现过哪些词

The final piece was a search algorithm that consulted the index;
最后一个部分，是查询索引的搜索算法

for example, if I typed the word "cat" into JumpStation,
举个例子，如果我在 JumpStation 输入"猫"

every webpage where the word "cat" appeared would come up in a list.
每个有"猫"这个词的网页都会出现

Early search engines used very simple metrics to rank order their search results, most often
早期搜索引擎的排名方式 非常简单

just the number of times a search term appeared on a page.
取决于 搜索词在页面上的出现次数

This worked okay, until people started gaming the system,
刚开始还行，直到有人开始钻空子

like by writing "cat" hundreds of times on their web pages just to steer traffic their way.
比如在网页上写几百个"猫"，把人们吸引过来

Google’s rise to fame was in large part
谷歌成名的一个很大原因是 \N 创造了一个聪明的算法来规避这个问题

due to a clever algorithm that sidestepped this issue.
谷歌成名的一个很大原因是 \N 创造了一个聪明的算法来规避这个问题

Instead of trusting the content on a web page,
与其信任网页上的内容 \N 搜索引擎会看其他网站 有没有链接到这个网站

they looked at how other websites linked to that page.
与其信任网页上的内容 \N 搜索引擎会看其他网站 有没有链接到这个网站

If it was a spam page with the word cat over and over again, no site would link to it.
如果只是写满"猫"的垃圾网站，没有网站会指向它

But if the webpage was an authority on cats, then other sites would likely link to it.
如果有关于猫的有用内容，有网站会指向它

So the number of what are called "backlinks", especially from reputable sites,
所以这些"反向链接"的数量，特别是有信誉的网站

was often a good sign of quality.
代表了网站质量

This started as a research project called BackRub at Stanford University in 1996, before
Google 一开始时是 1996 年斯坦福大学 \N 一个叫 BackRub 的研究项目

being spun out, two years later, into the Google we know today.
两年后分离出来，演变成如今的谷歌

Thanks thought bubble!
谢谢思想泡泡！

Finally, I want to take a second to talk about a term you’ve probably heard a lot recently,
最后 我想讲一个词，你最近可能经常听到

"Net Neutrality".
网络中立性

Now that you’ve built an understanding of packets, internet routing, and the World Wide
现在你对数据包，路由和万维网，有了个大体概念

Web, you know enough to understand the essence, at least the technical essence, of this big debate.
足够你理解这个争论的核心点，至少从技术角度

In short, network neutrality is the principle that
简单说"网络中立性"是

all packets on the internet should be treated equally.
应该平等对待所有数据包

It doesn’t matter if the packets are my email or you streaming this video,
不论这个数据包是我的邮件，或者是你在看视频

they should all chug along at the same speed and priority.
速度和优先级应该是一样的

But many companies would prefer that their data arrive to you preferentially.
但很多公司会乐意让它们的数据优先到达

Take for example, Comcast, a large ISP that also owns many TV channels,
拿 Comcast 举例，它们不但是大型互联网服务提供商\N 而且拥有多家电视频道

like NBC and The Weather Channel, which are streamed online.
比如 NBC 和 The Weather Channel，可以在线看.

Not to pick on Comcast, but in the absence of Net Neutrality rules,
我不是特意找Comcast麻烦 \N 但要是没有网络中立性

they could for example say that they want their content to be delivered silky smooth, with high priority…
Comcast 可以让自己的内容优先到达 \N 节流其他线上视频

But other streaming videos are going to get throttled,
Comcast 可以让自己的内容优先到达 \N 节流其他线上视频

that is, intentionally given less bandwidth and lower priority.
节流(Throttled) 意思是故意给更少带宽和更低优先级

Again I just want to reiterate here this is just conjecture.
再次重申，这只是举例，不是说 Comcast 很坏

At a high level, Net Neutrality advocates argue that giving internet providers this
支持网络中立性的人说 \N 没有中立性后，服务商可以推出提速的"高级套餐"

ability to essentially set up tolls on the internet – to provide premium packet delivery
支持网络中立性的人说 \N 没有中立性后，服务商可以推出提速的"高级套餐"

plants the seeds for an exploitative business model.
给剥削性商业模式埋下种子

ISPs could be gatekeepers to content, with strong incentives to not play nice with competitors.
互联网服务供应商成为信息的"守门人"，\N 它们有着强烈的动机去碾压对手

Also, if big companies like Netflix and Google can pay to get special treatment,
另外，Netflix和Google这样的大公司可以花钱买特权

small companies, like start-ups, will be at a disadvantage, stifling innovation.
而小公司，比如刚成立的创业公司，\N 会处于劣势，阻止了创新

On the other hand, there are good technical reasons why you might
另一方面，从技术原因看

want different types of data to flow at different speeds.
也许你会希望不同数据传输速度不同

That skype call needs high priority,
你希望Skype的优先级更高，邮件晚几秒没关系

but it’s not a big deal if an email comes in a few seconds late.
你希望Skype的优先级更高，邮件晚几秒没关系

Net-neutrality opponents also argue that market forces and competition would discourage bad
而反对"网络中立性"的人认为，市场竞争会阻碍不良行为

behavior, because customers would leave ISPs that are throttling sites they like.
如果供应商把客户喜欢的网站降速 \N 客户会离开供应商

This debate will rage on for a while yet, and as we always encourage on Crash Course,
这场争辩还会持续很久，\N 就像我们在 Crash Course 其他系列中说过

you should go out and learn more
你应该自己主动了解更多信息

because the implications of Net Neutrality are complex and wide-reaching.
因为"网络中立性"的影响十分复杂而且广泛

I’ll see you next week.
我们下周再见

