Hi, I’m Carrie Anne, and welcome to Crash Course Computer Science!
(｡･∀･)ﾉﾞ嗨，我是 Carrie Anne \N 欢迎收看计算机科学速成课！

Over the last three episodes, we’ve talked about how computers have become interconnected,
过去3集 我们讲了计算机如何互连

allowing us to communicate near-instantly across the globe.
让我们能瞬时跨全球沟通

But, not everyone who uses these networks is going to play by the rules,
但不是每个使用网络的人都会规规矩矩  不损害他人利益

or have our best interests at heart.
但不是每个使用网络的人都会规规矩矩  不损害他人利益

Just as how we have physical security like locks, fences
就像现实世界中我们用锁和栅栏保证物理安全

and police officers to minimize crime in the real world,
有警察减少犯罪

we need cybersecurity to minimize crime and harm in the virtual world.
我们需要网络安全减少虚拟世界中的犯罪

Computers don’t have ethics.
计算机没有道德观念

Give them a formally specified problem and
只要给计算机写清具体问题  它们很乐意地闪电般算出答案

they’ll happily pump out an answer at lightning speed.
只要给计算机写清具体问题  它们很乐意地闪电般算出答案

Running code that takes down a hospital’s computer systems
破坏医院计算机系统的代码 和 保持病人心跳的代码 \N 对计算机来说没有区别

is no different to a computer than code that keeps a patient's heart beating.
破坏医院计算机系统的代码 和 保持病人心跳的代码 \N 对计算机来说没有区别

Like the Force, computers can be pulled to the light side or the dark side.
就像"原力"一样 \N 计算机可以被拉到"光明面"或"黑暗面"

Cybersecurity is like the Jedi Order, trying to bring peace and justice to the cyber-verse.
网络安全就像 绝地武士团 \N 给网络世界带来和平与正义

The scope of cybersecurity evolves as fast as the capabilities of computing,
计算机安全的范围，和计算能力的发展速度一样快

but we can think of it as a set of techniques to protect the secrecy,
我们可以把计算机安全，看成是保护系统和数据的：

integrity and availability of computer systems and data against threats.
保密性，完整性和可用性

Let’s unpack those three goals:
我们逐个细说：

Secrecy, or confidentiality, means that only authorized people
"保密性"是只有有权限的人 \N 才能读取计算机系统和数据

should be able to access or read specific computer systems and data.
"保密性"是只有有权限的人 \N 才能读取计算机系统和数据

Data breaches, where hackers reveal people’s credit card information,
黑客泄露别人的信用卡信息，就是攻击保密性.

is an attack on secrecy.
黑客泄露别人的信用卡信息，就是攻击保密性.

Integrity means that only authorized people
"完整性"是只有有权限的人 \N 才能使用和修改系统和数据

should have the ability to use or modify systems and data.
"完整性"是只有有权限的人 \N 才能使用和修改系统和数据

Hackers who learn your password and send e-mails masquerading as you, is an integrity attack.
黑客知道你的邮箱密码，假冒你发邮件\N 就是攻击"完整性"

And availability means that authorized people should
"可用性"是有权限的人 \N 应该随时可以访问系统和数据

always have access to their systems and data.
"可用性"是有权限的人 \N 应该随时可以访问系统和数据

Think of Denial of Service Attacks, where hackers overload a website
拒绝服务攻击(DDOS) 就是黑客

with fake requests to make it slow or unreachable for others.
发大量的假请求到服务器，让网站很慢或者挂掉

That’s attacking the service’s availability.
这就是攻击"可用性"

To achieve these three general goals, security experts start with
为了实现这三个目标，安全专家会从 \N 抽象层面想象"敌人"可能是谁，这叫"威胁模型分析"

a specification of who your "enemy" is, at an abstract level, called a threat model.
为了实现这三个目标，安全专家会从 \N 抽象层面想象"敌人"可能是谁，这叫"威胁模型分析"

This profiles attackers: their capabilities, goals, and probable means of attack
模型会对攻击者有个大致描述：\N 能力如何，目标可能是什么，可能用什么手段

– what’s called, awesomely enough, an attack vector.
攻击手段又叫"攻击矢量"

Threat models let you prepare against specific threats, rather than
"威胁模型分析"让你能为特定情境做准备

being overwhelmed by all the ways hackers could get to your systems and data.
不被可能的攻击手段数量所淹没 \N 因为手段实在有太多种了

And there are many, many ways.
不被可能的攻击手段数量所淹没 \N 因为手段实在有太多种了

Let’s say you want to "secure" physical access to your laptop.
假设你想确保笔记本计算机的"物理安全" \N 你的威胁模型是"好管闲事的室友"

Your threat model is a nosy roommate.
假设你想确保笔记本计算机的"物理安全" \N 你的威胁模型是"好管闲事的室友"

To preserve the secrecy, integrity and availability of your laptop,
为了保证保密性，完整性和可用性 \N 你可以藏在脏兮兮的洗衣篮里

you could keep it hidden in your dirty laundry hamper.
为了保证保密性，完整性和可用性 \N 你可以藏在脏兮兮的洗衣篮里

But, if your threat model is a mischievous younger sibling
但如果威胁模型是调皮的兄弟姐妹，知道你喜欢藏哪里

who knows your hiding spots,
但如果威胁模型是调皮的兄弟姐妹，知道你喜欢藏哪里

then you’ll need to do more: maybe lock it in a safe.
那么你需要更多保护：比如锁在保险箱里

In other words, how a system is secured depends heavily on who it’s being secured against.
换句话说，要怎么保护，具体看对抗谁

Of course, threat models are typically a bit more formally defined than just "nosy roommate".
当然，威胁模型通常比"好管闲事的室友"更正式一些

Often you’ll see threat models specified in terms of technical capabilities.
通常威胁模型分析里 会以能力水平区分

For example, "someone who has physical access to your laptop along with unlimited time".
比如"某人可以物理接触到笔记本计算机，而且时间无限"

With a given threat model, security architects need to come up
在给定的威胁模型下，安全架构师要

with a solution that keeps a system secure –
提供解决方案，保持系统安全

as long as certain assumptions are met,
只要某些假设不被推翻

like no one reveals their password to the attacker.
比如没人会告诉攻击者密码

There are many methods for protecting computer systems, networks and data.
保护计算机系统，网络和数据的方法有很多

A lot of security boils down to two questions:
很多安全问题可以总结成2个问题：

who are you, and what should you have access to?
你是谁？你能访问什么？

Clearly, access should be given to the right people, but refused to the wrong people.
权限应该给合适的人，拒绝错误的人

Like, bank employees should be able to open ATMs to restock them, but not me…
比如银行员工可以打开取款机来补充现金。\N 但我不应该有权限打开

because I’d take it all... all of it!
因为我会把钱拿走 全拿走！

That ceramic cat collection doesn’t buy itself!
陶瓷猫收藏品可不会从天上掉下来哟！

So, to differentiate between right and wrong people, we use authentication
所以，为了区分谁是谁，\N 我们用 "身份认证"(authentication)

- the process by which a computer understands who it’s interacting with.
- 让计算机得知使用者是谁

Generally, there are three types, each with their own pros and cons:
身份认证有三种，各有利弊：

What you know.
你知道什么

What you have.
你有什么

And what you are.
你是什么

What you know authentication is based on knowledge of a secret that
"你知道什么" 是基于某个秘密

should be known only by the real user and the computer,
只有用户和计算机知道

for example, a username and password.
比如 用户名和密码

This is the most widely used today because it’s the easiest to implement.
这是如今使用最广泛的，因为最容易实现

But, it can be compromised if hackers guess or otherwise come to know your secret.
但如果黑客通过猜测或其他方式，知道你的密码，就惨了

Some passwords are easy for humans to figure out, like 12356 or qwerty.
有些密码很容易猜中，比如12356或qwerty

But, there are also ones that are easy for computers.
但有些密码对计算机很容易

Consider the PIN: 2580.
比如PIN码：2580

This seems pretty difficult to guess – and it is – for a human.
看起来很难猜中 - 起码对人类来说是这样

But there are only ten thousand possible combinations of 4-digit PINs.
但4位数字，只有一万种可能

A computer can try entering 0000, then try 0001, and then 0002,
一台计算机可以尝试0000，然后0001，然后0002，

all the way up to 9999... in a fraction of a second.
然后到9999，不到一秒内试完

This is called a brute force attack, because it just tries everything.
这叫"暴力攻击"，因为只是试遍一切可能

There’s nothing clever to the algorithm.
这种算法没什么聪明的地方

Some computer systems lock you out, or have you wait a little, after say three wrong attempts.
如果你错误尝试3次，\N 有些系统会阻止你继续尝试，或让你等一会儿

That’s a common and reasonable strategy,
这个策略普遍而且合理

and it does make it harder for less sophisticated attackers.
对于一般的攻击者确实很难

But think about what happens if hackers have already taken over
但假设黑客控制了

tens of thousands of computers, forming a botnet.
数以万计的计算机，形成一个僵尸网络

Using all these computers, the same pin – 2580 –
用这么多计算机尝试密码 2580

can be tried on many tens of thousands of bank accounts simultaneously.
同时尝试很多银行账户

Even with just a single attempt per account, they’ll very likely
即使每个账户只试一次，也很可能

get into one or more that just happen to use that PIN.
碰到某个账户刚好用这个 PIN

In fact, we’ve probably guessed the pin of someone watching this video!
事实上，看视频的某人可能刚好用这个 PIN

Increasing the length of PINs and passwords can help,
增加密码长度有帮助

but even 8 digit PINs are pretty easily cracked.
但即使8位数字的PIN码也很容易破解

This is why so many websites now require you to use a mix of upper and lowercase letters,
这就是为什么现在很多网站 要求大写+小写字母

special symbols, and so on – it explodes the number of possible password combinations.
还有特殊符号等，大大增加可能的密码

An 8-digit numerical PIN only has a hundred million combinations
8位数字的PIN只有一亿种组合

– computers eat that for breakfast!
对计算机轻而易举

But an 8-character password with all those funky things mixed in
但包含各种字符的8位长度密码

has more than 600 trillion combinations.
有超过600万亿种组合

Of course, these passwords are hard for us mere humans to remember,
当然，这些密码会难以记住，

so a better approach is for websites to let us pick something more memorable,
所以更好的方法是 选一些更好记的东西

like three words joined together:
比如三个单词连在一起：

"green brothers rock" or "pizza tasty yum".
"格林兄弟好厉害"或"披萨尝起来好好吃"

English has around 100,000 words in use,
英文大约有10万个单词

so putting three together would give you roughly
所以三个单词连一起大概有

1 quadrillion possible passwords. Good luck trying to guess that!
1亿亿种可能，想猜中的话，祝你好运！

I should also note here that using non-dictionary words
另外使用不在字典内的单词

is even better against more sophisticated kinds of attacks,
被猜中的可能性更低

but we don’t have time to get into that here.
但我们没时间细说这个

Computerphile has a great video on choosing a password - link in the dooblydoo.
Computerphile 频道有个视频讲怎么选择好密码 - \N 链接请看 Youtube 描述

What you have authentication, on the other hand,
"你有什么"这种验证方式

is based on possession of a secret token that only the real user has.
是基于用户有特定物体

An example is a physical key and lock.
比如钥匙和锁

You can only unlock the door if you have the key.
如果你有钥匙，就能开门

This escapes this problem of being "guessable".
这避免了被人"猜中"的问题

And they typically require physical presence,
而且通常需要人在现场

so it’s much harder for remote attackers to gain access.
所以远程攻击就更难了

Someone in another country can’t gain access to your front door in Florida
另一个国家的人，得先来佛罗里达州

without getting to Florida first.
才能到你家前门

But, what you have authentication can be compromised if an attacker is physically close.
但如果攻击者离你比较近，那么也不安全

Keys can be copied, smartphones stolen, and locks picked.
钥匙可以被复制，手机可能被偷，锁可以撬开

Finally, what you are authentication is based on... you!
最后，"你是什么"这种验证，是基于你

You authenticate by presenting yourself to the computer.
把特征展示给计算机进行验证

Biometric authenticators, like fingerprint readers and iris scanners are classic examples.
生物识别验证器，\N 比如指纹识别器和虹膜扫描仪就是典型例子

These can be very secure, but the best technologies are still quite expensive.
这些非常安全，但最好的识别技术仍然很贵

Furthermore, data from sensors varies over time.
而且，来自传感器的数据每次会不同

What you know and what you have authentication have the nice property of being deterministic
"你知道什么"和"你有什么"。这两种验证是"确定性"的

– either correct or incorrect.
- 要么正确，要么错误

If you know the secret, or have the key, you’re granted access 100% of the time.
如果你知道密码，或有钥匙，那么100％能获得访问权限

If you don’t, you get access zero percent of the time.
如果没有，就绝对进不去

Biometric authentication, however, is probabilistic.There’s some chance the system won’t recognize you…
但"生物识别"是概率性的，系统有可能认不出你

maybe you’re wearing a hat or the lighting is bad.
可能你戴了帽子，或者光线不好

Worse, there’s some chance the system will recognize the wrong person as you
更糟的是，系统可能把别人错认成你

– like your evil twin!
比如你的邪恶双胞胎

Of course, in production systems, these chances are low, but not zero.
当然，在现实世界中几率很低，但不是零

Another issue with biometric authentication is it can’t be reset.
生物认证的另一个问题是无法重设

You only have so many fingers, so what happens if an attacker compromises your fingerprint data?
你只有这么多手指，如果攻击者拿到你的指纹数据怎么办

This could be a big problem for life.
你一辈子都麻烦了

And, recently, researchers showed it’s possible to forge your iris
最近还有研究人员表示，拍个照都有可能伪造虹膜

just by capturing a photo of you, so that’s not promising either.
所以也不靠谱

Basically, all forms of authentication have strengths and weaknesses,
所有认证方法都有优缺点，

and all can be compromised in one way or another.
它们都可以被攻破

So, security experts suggest using two or more forms of authentication
所以，对于重要账户，\N 安全专家建议用两种或两种以上的认证方式

for important accounts.
所以，对于重要账户，\N 安全专家建议用两种或两种以上的认证方式

This is known as two-factor or multi-factor authentication.
这叫"双因素"或"多因素"认证

An attacker may be able to guess your password or steal your phone:
攻击者可能猜出你密码，或偷走你的手机：

but it’s much harder to do both.
但两个都做到，会比较难

After authentication comes Access Control.
"身份验证"后，就来到了"访问控制"

Once a system knows who you are, it needs to know what you should be able to access,
一旦系统知道你是谁，它需要知道你能访问什么，

and for that there’s a specification of who should be able to see, modify and use what.
因此应该有个规范，\N 说明谁能访问什么，修改什么，使用什么。

This is done through Permissions or Access Control Lists (ACL),
这可以通过"权限"或"访问控制列表"（ACL）来实现

which describe what access each user has for every file, folder and program on a computer.
其中描述了用户对每个文件，文件夹和程序的访问权限

"Read" permission allows a user to see the contents of a file,
"读"权限允许用户查看文件内容，

"write" permission allows a user to modify the contents,
"写"权限允许用户修改内容，

and "execute" permission allows a user to run a file, like a program.
"执行"权限允许用户运行文件，比如程序

For organizations with users at different levels of access privilege
有些组织需要不同层级的权限

– like a spy agency – it’s especially important for Access Control Lists
比如间谍机构，"访问控制列表"的正确配置非常重要

to be configured correctly to ensure secrecy, integrity and availability.
以确保保密性，完整性和可用性

Let’s say we have three levels of access: public, secret and top secret.
假设我们有三个访问级别：公开，机密，顶级机密

The first general rule of thumb is that people shouldn’t be able to "read up".
第一个普遍的好做法是，\N 用户不能"读上", 不能读等级更高的信息

If a user is only cleared to read secret files, they shouldn’t be able to read top secret
如果用户能读"机密"文件\N 那么不应该有权限读"顶级机密"文件

files, but should be able to access secret and public ones.
但能访问"机密"和"公开"文件

The second general rule of thumb is that people shouldn’t be able to "write down".
第二个法则是用户不能"写下"

If a member has top secret clearance, then they should be able to
如果用户等级是"顶级机密"

write or modify top secret files, but not secret or public files.
那么能写入或修改"顶级机密"文件，\N 但不能修改"机密"或"公共"文件

It may seem weird that even with the highest clearance,
听起来好像很奇怪 \N 有最高等级也不能改等级更低的文件

you can’t modify less secret files.
听起来好像很奇怪 \N 有最高等级也不能改等级更低的文件

But, it guarantees that there’s no accidental leakage of
但这样确保了"顶级机密" \N 不会意外泄露到"机密"文件或"公共"文件里

top secret information into secret or public files.
但这样确保了"顶级机密" \N 不会意外泄露到"机密"文件或"公共"文件里

This "no read up, no write down" approach is called the Bell-LaPadula model.
这个"不能向上读，不能向下写"的方法\N 叫 Bell-LaPadula 模型

It was formulated for the U.S. Department of Defense’s Multi-Level Security policy.
它是为美国国防部"多层安全政策"制定的

There are many other models for access control – like the Chinese Wall model and Biba model.
还有许多其他的访问控制模型 - 比如"中国墙"模型和"比伯"模型

Which model is best depends on your use-case.
哪个模型最好，取决于具体情况

Authentication and access control help a computer determine who you are
"身份验证"和"访问控制"帮助计算机知道"你是谁"

and what you should access,
以及"你可以访问什么"，

but depend on being able to trust the hardware and software
但做这些事情的软硬件必须是可信的

that run the authentication and access control programs.
但做这些事情的软硬件必须是可信的

That’s a big dependence.
这个依赖很重要

If an attacker installs malicious software – called malware
如果攻击者给计算机装了恶意软件

– compromising the host computer’s operating system,
- 控制了计算机的操作系统

how can we be sure security programs don’t have a backdoor that let attackers in?
我们怎么确定安全程序没有给攻击者留后门？

The short answer is… we can’t.
短回答是...无法确定

We still have no way to guarantee the security of a program or computing system.
我们仍然无法保证程序或计算机系统的安全

That’s because even while security software might be "secure" in theory,
因为安全软件在理论上可能是"安全的"

implementation bugs can still result in vulnerabilities.
实现时可能会不小心留下漏洞

But, we do have techniques to reduce the likelihood of bugs,
但我们有办法减少漏洞出现的可能性

like quickly find and patch bugs when they do occur,
比如一找到就马上修复

and mitigate damage when a program is compromised.
以及当程序被攻破时尽可能减少损害

Most security errors come from implementation error.
大部分漏洞都是具体实现的时候出错了

To reduce implementation error, reduce implementation.
为了减少执行错误，减少执行

One of the holy grails of system level security is a "security kernel"
系统级安全的圣杯之一是"安全内核"

or a "trusted computing base": a minimal set of operating system software
或"可信计算基础"：一组尽可能少的操作系统软件

that’s close to provably secure.
安全性都是接近可验证的

A challenge in constructing these security kernels is deciding what should go into it.
构建安全内核的挑战在于 决定内核应该有什么

Remember, the less code, the better!
记住，代码越少越好！

Even after minimizing code bloat, it would be great to "guarantee"
在最小化代码数量之后，\N 要是能"保证"代码是安全的，会非常棒

that’s code is written in secure.
在最小化代码数量之后，\N 要是能"保证"代码是安全的，会非常棒

Formally verifying the security of code is an active area of research.
正式验证代码的安全性 是一个活跃的研究领域

The best we have right now is a process called Independent Verification and Validation.
我们现在最好的手段，叫"独立安全检查和质量验证"

This works by having code audited by a crowd of security-minded developers.
让一群安全行业内的软件开发者来审计代码

This is why security code is almost always open-sourced.
这就是为什么安全型代码几乎都是开源的

It’s often difficult for people who wrote the original code to find bugs,
写原始代码的人通常很难找到错误

but external developers, with fresh eyes and different expertise, can spot problems.
但外部开发人员有新鲜的眼光 \N和不同领域的专业知识，可以发现问题.

There are also conferences where like-minded hackers and security experts
另外还有一些安全大会，安全专家可以相互认识，分享想法.

can mingle and share ideas,
另外还有一些安全大会，安全专家可以相互认识，分享想法.

the biggest of which is DEF CON, held annually in Las Vegas.
一年一次在拉斯维加斯举办的 DEF CON \N 是全球最大的安全大会

Finally, even after reducing code and auditing it,
最后，即便尽可能减少代码 并进行了安全审计

clever attackers are bound to find tricks that let them in.
聪明的攻击者还是会找到方法入侵

With this in mind, good developers should take the approach that,
因为如此，优秀的开发人员

not if, but when their programs are compromised,
应该计划当程序被攻破后，\N如何限制损害，控制损害的最大程度

the damage should be limited and contained,
应该计划当程序被攻破后，\N如何限制损害，控制损害的最大程度

and not let it compromise other things running on the computer.
并且不让它危害到计算机上其他东西

This principle is called isolation.
这叫"隔离"

To achieve isolation, we can "sandbox" applications.
要实现隔离，我们可以"沙盒"程序

This is like placing an angry kid in a sandbox; when the kid goes ballistic,
这好比把生气的小孩放在沙箱里，

they only destroy the sandcastle in their own box,
他们只能摧毁自己的沙堡，不会影响到其他孩子

but other kids in the playground continue having fun.
他们只能摧毁自己的沙堡，不会影响到其他孩子

Operating Systems attempt to sandbox applications
操作系统会把程序放到沙盒里

by giving each their own block of memory that others programs can’t touch.
方法是给每个程序独有的内存块，其他程序不能动

It’s also possible for a single computer to run multiple Virtual Machines, essentially
一台计算机可以运行多个虚拟机

simulated computers, that each live in their own sandbox.
虚拟机模拟计算机，每个虚拟机都在自己的沙箱里

If a program goes awry, worst case is that it crashes or
如果一个程序出错，最糟糕的情况是它自己崩溃

compromises only the virtual machine on which it’s running.
或者搞坏它处于的虚拟机

All other Virtual Machines running on the computer are isolated and unaffected.
计算机上其他虚拟机是隔离的，不受影响

Ok, that’s a broad overview of some key computer security topics.
好，一些重要安全概念的概览 \N 我们到此就介绍完了

And I didn’t even get to network security, like firewalls.
我都还没讲网络安全，比如防火墙

Next episode, we’ll discuss some methods
下集我们会讨论  黑客侵入系统的一些方法

hackers use to get into computer systems.
下集我们会讨论  黑客侵入系统的一些方法

After that, we’ll touch on encryption.
然后我们学加密

Until then, make your passwords stronger, turn on 2-factor authentication,
在此之前，别忘了加强你的密码，打开两步验证

and NEVER click links in unsolicited emails!
永远不要点可疑邮件

I’ll see you next week.
我们下周见

